Another useful Shater in our materials enlighting tool toolbox is the emission Shater.
This allows you to create an object and have that object emit light in the scene.
But this only works in the cycles render engine.
So let's say I wanted to light this scene with an object.
So I'm going to go ahead and delete this sunlight here.
I'll just hit X and delete.
I'll also change from local to global in my transform orientation there.
I'll bring the cursor back to the center with shift s and cursor to center so that when I create a polygon
play it'll pop there into the center so now I'll press shift A and create that polygon plane I'll scale
it up a bit and I'll move it up and over to here in the scene and what I'm going to do is use this polygon
object.
As a light source I'll hit R and y to rotate around the y axis.
Maybe I'll move it up and even rotate it a bit so it points down into the scene like that.
So let's give this a try.
Now that I've created it let's go over to the material panel click new to create a new material and
let's call this light.
And now I'll just change the diffuse Shater from diffuse to emission.
Now we don't see a whole lot of change here yet.
Let's take the strength up to maybe 100 and see what happens.
Now you can see that we're getting quite a bit of light from that object.
That of course is a bit too much.
But let's let's take it down to 20 let's say and see how that looks.
Still maybe a little bit too bright let's take it down to 10.
Let's try that yeah let's see how that works.
If I switch to the rendered viewport shading over here you can see now that that polygon plane is emitting
light into the same.
All right let me switch back to my solid view and as we reduce the size of the light we can take a look
at how that effects are seen and the actual size of the object affects directly the strength of the
light.
So I'll scale that back up maybe to about their so now maybe we've come to the point where we say OK
this is the way I want my scene to look.
Now I've got the materials the lighting set up the way I want I'm ready to do my final render test.
So what we can do is go ahead and come back to the render panel and click on render.
Now I'm rendering the image out at full resolution 1920 by 10 A.D. at 100 percent to get a sense of
how it's going to look at full size and full resolution Well Rynders looking pretty good.
We can see some reflections here in the metal of the paper towel holder.
We can also see some of the texture on the paper towels and on the orange.
Now we still see some grain appear in the shadows and down here under the bowl and that can often be
remedied by just increasing the samples.
Let me zoom out a bit here.
Just increasing the samples in the render window under sampling here.
So currently we only have 100 samples for the render and it doesn't look too bad.
The problem is that it's taken us almost four minutes to render this one frame.
And if it is a single frame image that you're going to use that may not be a problem if it's an animation.
And as I've said if you have hundreds or thousands of frames maybe four minutes of frame is not acceptable.
This is all very much a balancing act.
How much quality do you want to get balanced with how much time you have to render.
So to clean up some of the grain in the shadows here we could turn up our sampling to 200 500 1000 but
any increase in our samples will also increase the render time.
Now if you have reflective objects like this paper towel holder you can see here right in here there
are these little Firefly's little sparklies that happen because of the reflections coming off the material.
Now these may be acceptable.
However if you are interested in trying to reduce those there are a couple of things that you can do.
First of all since we have an HDR image in the background or being used for reflections and lighting
we may need to come back to our world settings here and under settings we could turn on this multiple
importance setting.
I'll just click that there and you can see here it says use multiple important sampling for the environment
and that can help clean up some of those Firefly's.
That's one thing to try.
Another over here in the render panel and under light paths you have a filter glossy setting if you
increase this just a bit it can help filter some of the artifacts we're getting from that glossy node.
And in addition we could turn off caustic completely here under refractive and reflective caustic caustic
are the light patterns that can happen when light bounces off or through an object.
We can turn these off completely and reduce some of that Firefly effect.
But Cossack's are kind of nice.
So you may want to give it a try to see if you can get the effects that you're looking for.
And lastly if need be you can come up here and adjust the clamp indirect setting.
This will clamp the high end or the brightest parts of the scene and so it can actually reduce some
of the quality or the highlights in your scene.
If I took this and maybe entered 10 let's say and tried that.
That may be able to get rid of some of those fireflies but it also may reduce the brightness or the
highlights in my scene but we'll give it a shot and see how it looks.
All right.
So I'm going to scroll back up and let's render again.
Well our image has rendered and it's looking pretty good.
I've increased the samples up to 500.
And you can see because of that the render time is over 20 minutes.
But in addition the few settings we changed has really helped eliminate those fireflies coming off of
our reflective surfaces.
So now that we have our render the way we want it we can go ahead and save it out by coming down here
to the image menu and we can click save image and save it out to wherever we want.
Maybe I'll call this render one.
Maybe I'll want to test different lighting scenarios different colors materials etc. so I'll just save
that out.
And now I have my rendered image Well thank you for watching this materials and lighting course.
I hope it's been helpful.
Please check out the other great courses we have here at Blendr 101 dot com.
So thanks again.
I'll see you next time and take care.